---
title: "Benchmarking Your New Data Platform"
date: '2025-10-13'
issueno: "029"
draft: false
---

As the Data Product Owner, you're tasked with overseeing the migration of your legacy data platform[^1]. Your old platform is currently ingesting data from your many assets, for example wind turbines in your wind parks across the globe. Data that your business stakeholders rely on for critical reporting.

What keeps you up at night?

"Can this new platform we're commissioning fulfill all the current business requirements without interruptions, or will I get angry emails asking for missing data?" 

As the migration project moves on, you'll likely have both systems running in parallel for a while. The platform provider wants to know: are you happy with the delivery?

This is not a trivial question to answer. You had the legacy platform for years (possibly decades). Some things to keep in mind:

* You likely don't know who's accessing your current system directly (e.g. SQL over ODBC).
* You likely don't have an inventory of important signals for each asset (do you need all columns?)
* By which metrics will you compare the old and new system (completeness, timeliness?)

The new system provider can't answer any of the above questions for you. Think carefully who inside your organization has the ability and the time to bridge gap between business requirements and the technical capabilities of your current system.

[^1]: Probably a custom-built tool involving a database like Oracle or Microsoft SQL Server. In worst cases, something older such as Ingres or an in-house developed SAP system.
